README.md, before:

# Sunsama HTTP API Server

> **Disclaimer**: This is an unofficial wrapper for the Sunsama API. It is not affiliated with or endorsed by Sunsama.

HTTP REST API server for [Sunsama](https://sunsama.com) daily planning, designed for integration with [n8n](https://n8n.io) and other automation tools.

## Credits

This project is built on top of [sunsama-api](https://github.com/robertn702/sunsama-api) by [Robert Niimi (@robertn702)](https://github.com/robertn702). Huge thanks to him for creating the excellent TypeScript wrapper for the Sunsama API!

## Features

- **Multi-user support** - Single container handles multiple Sunsama accounts via API keys
- **Docker-ready** - Includes Dockerfile and docker-compose.yml with secrets support
- **n8n compatible** - REST API designed for easy integration with n8n workflows
- **Secure** - Support for Docker secrets to protect credentials
- **Full CRUD** - Complete task management: create, read, update, delete
- **Type-safe** - Built with TypeScript

## Quick Start

### Using Docker (Recommended)

1. **Create secrets directory:**
   ```bash
   mkdir -p secrets
   echo "your-email@sunsama.com:your-password" > secrets/user1.txt
   ```

2. **Start the server:**
   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

3. **Test the API:**
   ```bash
   curl -H "Authorization: Bearer sk_user1" http://localhost:3000/api/user
   ```

### Local Development

1. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   pnpm install
   ```

2. **Configure API keys:**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your Sunsama credentials
   # Format: API_KEY_<your-key>=<email>:<password>
   ```

3. **Start the server:**
   ```bash
   pnpm dev:server
   ```

## API Endpoints

All API endpoints require authentication via `Authorization: Bearer <api_key>` header.

### Health Check (no auth)

```http
GET /health
```

### User

```http
GET /api/user              # Get current user info
GET /api/user/timezone     # Get user timezone
```

### Streams

```http
GET /api/streams           # Get all streams/projects
```

### Tasks

```http
GET /api/tasks/day/:date   # Get tasks for a specific day (YYYY-MM-DD)
GET /api/tasks/backlog     # Get backlog tasks
GET /api/tasks/archived    # Get archived tasks (?offset=0&limit=300)
GET /api/tasks/:id         # Get task by ID

POST /api/tasks            # Create a new task
  Body: { text, notes?, timeEstimate?, streamIds? }

PATCH /api/tasks/:id/complete      # Mark task complete
PATCH /api/tasks/:id/snooze        # Schedule task / move to backlog
PATCH /api/tasks/:id/notes         # Update task notes
PATCH /api/tasks/:id/planned-time  # Update time estimate
PATCH /api/tasks/:id/due-date      # Update due date
PATCH /api/tasks/:id/text          # Update task text
PATCH /api/tasks/:id/stream        # Update stream assignment

DELETE /api/tasks/:id      # Delete task
```

## n8n Integration

### HTTP Request Node Configuration

1. **Method:** GET, POST, PATCH, or DELETE
2. **URL:** `http://your-server:3000/api/tasks`
3. **Authentication:** Header Auth
4. **Header Name:** `Authorization`
5. **Header Value:** `Bearer sk_your_api_key`

### Example: Get Today's Tasks

```
Method: GET
URL: http://localhost:3000/api/tasks/day/{{ $now.format('yyyy-MM-dd') }}
Headers:
  Authorization: Bearer sk_user1
```

### Example: Create Task from n8n

```
Method: POST
URL: http://localhost:3000/api/tasks
Headers:
  Authorization: Bearer sk_user1
  Content-Type: application/json
Body:
  {
    "text": "Task created from n8n",
    "timeEstimate": 30
  }
```

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `PORT` | Server port | `3000` |
| `HOST` | Bind address | `0.0.0.0` |
| `API_KEY_<key>` | Direct credentials: `email:password` | - |
| `API_KEY_<key>_FILE` | Path to file containing `email:password` | - |

### Docker Secrets (Production)

```yaml
environment:
  - API_KEY_sk_user1_FILE=/run/secrets/user1_creds
secrets:
  - user1_creds

secrets:
  user1_creds:
    file: ./secrets/user1.txt
```

## Error Responses

```json
{
  "error": {
    "message": "Error description",
    "code": "ERROR_CODE",
    "status": 400
  }
}
```

| Status | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 400 | Validation error |
| 401 | Authentication error |
| 404 | Resource not found |
| 500 | Internal server error |
| 502 | Upstream API error |
| 503 | Network error |

## Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
pnpm install

# Run in development mode
pnpm dev:server

# Build for production
pnpm build

# Run production server
pnpm start

# Run tests
pnpm test
```

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

This project is built upon [sunsama-api](https://github.com/robertn702/sunsama-api) which is also MIT licensed.

## Acknowledgments

- [Robert Niimi (@robertn702)](https://github.com/robertn702) - Creator of the original [sunsama-api](https://github.com/robertn702/sunsama-api) TypeScript wrapper
- [Sunsama](https://sunsama.com) - The daily planner for busy professionals

Commit message:

fix: align timeHorizon values with Sunsama's internal API
The previous implementation used custom API-friendly values (week, month,
quarter, year) that were mapped to Sunsama's internal values. This caused
issues where tasks created with certain timeHorizon values would break
the Sunsama UI or display incorrectly in the backlog.

Root cause: Sunsama's internal API expects specific horizon type values
(soon, next, next-quarter, later, someday, never) and the mapping was
incomplete or incorrect for some edge cases.

Changes:
- Use Sunsama's internal timeHorizon values directly:
  * soon (was: week) - Someday in the next week or two
  * next (was: month) - Someday in the next month
  * next-quarter (was: quarter) - Someday in the next quarter
  * later (was: year) - Someday in the next year
  * someday - Someday (unchanged)
  * never - Never (unchanged)

- Add backlogOrderings array when timeHorizon is specified, which is
  required for proper backlog bucket placement in Sunsama

- Create TaskBacklogOrderingInput interface (without __typename) for
  mutation inputs, fixing TypeScript build errors

- Fix streamId type to allow null (string | null) as Sunsama accepts

- Update Swagger/OpenAPI documentation with inline enum format to fix
  swagger-jsdoc parsing issue that was hiding POST /api/tasks endpoint

- Disable no-console ESLint rule for server code where logging is needed

- Update README with timeHorizon documentation and usage examples

README.md, after:

# Sunsama HTTP API Server

> **Disclaimer**: This is an unofficial wrapper for the Sunsama API. It is not affiliated with or endorsed by Sunsama.

HTTP REST API server for [Sunsama](https://sunsama.com) daily planning, designed for integration with [n8n](https://n8n.io) and other automation tools.

## Credits

This project is built on top of [sunsama-api](https://github.com/robertn702/sunsama-api) by [Robert Niimi (@robertn702)](https://github.com/robertn702). Huge thanks to him for creating the excellent TypeScript wrapper for the Sunsama API!

## Features

- **Multi-user support** - Single container handles multiple Sunsama accounts via API keys
- **Docker-ready** - Includes Dockerfile and docker-compose.yml with secrets support
- **n8n compatible** - REST API designed for easy integration with n8n workflows
- **Secure** - Support for Docker secrets to protect credentials
- **Full CRUD** - Complete task management: create, read, update, delete
- **Type-safe** - Built with TypeScript

## Quick Start

### Using Docker (Recommended)

1. **Create secrets directory:**
   ```bash
   mkdir -p secrets
   echo "your-email@sunsama.com:your-password" > secrets/user1.txt
   ```

2. **Start the server:**
   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

3. **Test the API:**
   ```bash
   curl -H "Authorization: Bearer sk_user1" http://localhost:3000/api/user
   ```

### Local Development

1. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   pnpm install
   ```

2. **Configure API keys:**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your Sunsama credentials
   # Format: API_KEY_<your-key>=<email>:<password>
   ```

3. **Start the server:**
   ```bash
   pnpm dev:server
   ```

## API Endpoints

All API endpoints require authentication via `Authorization: Bearer <api_key>` header.

### Health Check (no auth)

```http
GET /health
```

### User

```http
GET /api/user              # Get current user info
GET /api/user/timezone     # Get user timezone
```

### Streams

```http
GET /api/streams           # Get all streams/projects
```

### Tasks

```http
GET /api/tasks/day/:date   # Get tasks for a specific day (YYYY-MM-DD)
GET /api/tasks/backlog     # Get backlog tasks
GET /api/tasks/archived    # Get archived tasks (?offset=0&limit=300)
GET /api/tasks/:id         # Get task by ID

POST /api/tasks            # Create a new task
  Body: { text, notes?, timeEstimate?, streamIds?, timeHorizon?, dueDate?, snoozeUntil?, private?, taskId? }

PATCH /api/tasks/:id/complete      # Mark task complete
PATCH /api/tasks/:id/snooze        # Schedule task / move to backlog
PATCH /api/tasks/:id/notes         # Update task notes
PATCH /api/tasks/:id/planned-time  # Update time estimate
PATCH /api/tasks/:id/due-date      # Update due date
PATCH /api/tasks/:id/text          # Update task text
PATCH /api/tasks/:id/stream        # Update stream assignment

DELETE /api/tasks/:id      # Delete task
```

## n8n Integration

### HTTP Request Node Configuration

1. **Method:** GET, POST, PATCH, or DELETE
2. **URL:** `http://your-server:3000/api/tasks`
3. **Authentication:** Header Auth
4. **Header Name:** `Authorization`
5. **Header Value:** `Bearer sk_your_api_key`

### Example: Get Today's Tasks

```
Method: GET
URL: http://localhost:3000/api/tasks/day/{{ $now.format('yyyy-MM-dd') }}
Headers:
  Authorization: Bearer sk_user1
```

### Example: Create Task from n8n

```
Method: POST
URL: http://localhost:3000/api/tasks
Headers:
  Authorization: Bearer sk_user1
  Content-Type: application/json
Body:
  {
    "text": "Task created from n8n",
    "timeEstimate": 30
  }
```

### Example: Create Task in Backlog Bucket

You can create tasks in specific backlog buckets using the `timeHorizon` parameter:

```
Method: POST
URL: http://localhost:3000/api/tasks
Headers:
  Authorization: Bearer sk_user1
  Content-Type: application/json
Body:
  {
    "text": "Task in next quarter",
    "timeHorizon": "next-quarter"
  }
```

**Available `timeHorizon` values:**
- `soon` - Someday in the next week or two
- `next` - Someday in the next month
- `next-quarter` - Someday in the next quarter
- `later` - Someday in the next year
- `someday` - Someday (default if not specified)
- `never` - Never

Tasks without `timeHorizon` will be placed in the "Someday" bucket by default.

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `PORT` | Server port | `3000` |
| `HOST` | Bind address | `0.0.0.0` |
| `API_KEY_<key>` | Direct credentials: `email:password` | - |
| `API_KEY_<key>_FILE` | Path to file containing `email:password` | - |

### Docker Secrets (Production)

```yaml
environment:
  - API_KEY_sk_user1_FILE=/run/secrets/user1_creds
secrets:
  - user1_creds

secrets:
  user1_creds:
    file: ./secrets/user1.txt
```

## Error Responses

```json
{
  "error": {
    "message": "Error description",
    "code": "ERROR_CODE",
    "status": 400
  }
}
```

| Status | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 400 | Validation error |
| 401 | Authentication error |
| 404 | Resource not found |
| 500 | Internal server error |
| 502 | Upstream API error |
| 503 | Network error |

## Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
pnpm install

# Run in development mode
pnpm dev:server

# Build for production
pnpm build

# Run production server
pnpm start

# Run tests
pnpm test
```

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

This project is built upon [sunsama-api](https://github.com/robertn702/sunsama-api) which is also MIT licensed.

## Acknowledgments

- [Robert Niimi (@robertn702)](https://github.com/robertn702) - Creator of the original [sunsama-api](https://github.com/robertn702/sunsama-api) TypeScript wrapper
- [Sunsama](https://sunsama.com) - The daily planner for busy professionals
